# Adding support for a new site

Note: See the [setup guide](../contributors/setup_guide.md) for details of setting up your local repository and build environment before starting on adding a new site. The [README file](../readme.md) is the best jumping off point for all developer documentation.

The time taken to add support for a new site varies a lot based on the complexity of the site, the experience of the developer etc. With testing and debugging it usually takes Rob 4-15 days to add a site. The way Sourcer works means that it is not just a matter of scraping the data from the page since the search and narrative support requires interpreting the data.

## Work in the develop branch in your fork when adding a new site

This is so that I can merge a PR to the main repo without affecting the next release being worked on in the main branch.

## Pick a name

The first decision is to choose a unique abbrevation for your new site. This will be all lower case with no spaces or underscores.
For example FindMyPast is `fmp` and Scotlands People is `scotp`. Try to keep it to 10 characters or less since this name will be part of many folder, file and class names.

Also, pick the "display name" for the site. This is the name/description that shows up on the Surcer menu for searching the site and also in the options page for the site. Examples are `FamilySearch` and `Probate Search/Find A Will (UK)`

## Use the create_new_site script to setup the files and folders for your new site

The folder and file structure in Sourcer is very modular. This keeps the code for each site separate and, within each site, separates the code for each area of focus.

This script creates all the files and folders needed for your new site and also edits some existing files that have to know about all the sites.

To run the script:

`node scripts/create_new_site.js <sitename> <site display name> <site URL match string>`

for example:

`node scripts/create_new_site.js trove "Trove (Aus)" "*://trove.nla.gov.au/*"`

The script will ask a few questions like this:

```
% node scripts/create_new_site.js trove "Trove (Aus)" "*://trove.nla.gov.au/*"
Does this site support search using URL query? [y/n]: n
Does this site lack record pages and require selecting a row to cite from search results? [y/n]: y
About to create the new site's folders and files.
  siteName is 'trove'
  siteDisplayName is 'Trove (Aus)'
  siteUrlMatch is '*://trove.nla.gov.au/*'
  searchUsingLocalStorage is 'true'
  needsHighlightRow is 'true'
Continue and create folders and files? [y/n]:
```

The answers to those questions will affect the code files that are generated by the script. Here is some more detail on how to answer those questions:

* **Does this site support search using URL query?**
  This changes the code generated for searching. If the site allows you to do a search using a URL query the code is simpler. If it doesn't then Sourcer will save the search details in extension local storage and open the search page. The extension content script for the site will then use the search data in the local storage to fill out the search form.
  You can usually tell if the site supports search using URL query like this: Go to the site and do a manual search. If the URL showing in the URL bar when the search results are displayed contains all of the search data that you put into the search form then it does support URL query.
* **Does this site lack record pages and require selecting a row to cite from search results?**
  If the site doesn't have a separate page for each record but just shows you a list of search results then you will most likely have to add a way to click on a search result to indicate which one to build a citation for. So if you answer yes to this question then some sample code will be generated to show how to do that.

You can see this [separate doc](what_the_create_new_site_script_does.md) for the internal details what the script does - just in case you need to debug it.

## Implement the extract step

The first step is to write the code to extract the data from the web site. For most sites this just involves extracting from one web page with no other fetches required.

The code for this will be in the `extension/site/<site>/core/<site>_extract_data.mjs` file. You can look at other sites for examples.

This step will create an `extracted_data` structure that is used by the generalize step AND the build citation step. Unlike the `generalized_data` structure the `extracted_data` structure can have whatever fields you want but it is suggested that you keep it somewhat similar to other sites just to make maintenance easier.

Key points about this file that make it different to the other steps:
* the `<site>_extract_data.mjs` file cannot import any other modules
* Sourcer does not use `jquery`. The built-in Javascript functions `querySelector` and `querySelectorAll` are used
* You can save the web page locally and test this using the unit test framework or test in the browser. Testing locally allows you to implement this before doing any work on the popup code or the manifest.
* See [this doc on the extract data design for more details](extract_data_design.md)

## Implement the generalize step

This step takes the `extracted_data` structure and builds a `generalized_data` structure. The `generalized_data` structure is used for search and for building narrative sentences and can also be used in the build citation step. The `generalized_data` structure is an instance of the `GeneralizedData` class.

This step includes assigning a record type and filling in fields like name, birth date, birth place etc.

New sites use a file called `<site>_ed_reader.mjs` to do this. This provides a structure where you just need to fill in the functions that set each fields in the generalized_data structure.

For more details see [this page](generalize_data_design.md) on the generalize data design.

## Implement the build citation step

This step takes the `extracted_data` and `generalized_data` (and the options) as input and builds the citation text and saves that to the clipboard. There are common helper classes like citation_builder.mjs you should use.

The code for this will be in the `extension/site/<site>/core/<site>_build_citation.mjs` file.

## Implement search

The search code for the site will allow this site to be searched from WikiTree or from all other sites that WikiTree supports.

The approach taken depends on how the site can be searched. Usually it is one of two ways:
1. The site supports search via the query part of the URL. This is the simplest. Simple example sites are `freebmd` and `fg`.
   The code for this will be in the `extension/site/<site>/core/<site>_build_search_url.mjs` file.
3. The site does not support URL query so Sourcer must save the search data in local storage and then fill out the form on the site's search page and submit the form. Example sites are `vicbdm` and `wikitree`. The code for this will be in the `extension/site/<site>/core/<site>_build_search_data.mjs` file.

The create_new_site script now supports either first approach. To use the second approach see [implement search using local storage](implement_search_using_local_storage.md)

## Implement options for the site

Each site can have its own option settings for searching the site and for building citations. The `create_new_site` script generates the file `extension/site/<site>/core/<site>_options.mjs`. If you want any site options you will define them here. See other sites with similar options for examples.

## Implement any extra features for this site

Simple sites will not need anything more but many sites have little extras like context menu support or menu items to build templates etc.

## Problem cases

Some sites present problems in searching or building citations. These may have been encountered for other sites. See [this list of problem cases](site_problem_cases.md) to see if you can follow an existing pattern.

## Documentation

You can add user documentation for the new site to a free space page. When the site support is released you can add a link to the documentation page to the [supported sites](https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Space:WikiTree_Sourcer_supported_sites) page.
